Welcome to this breakpoint session.
I'm going to start off by running the application and debug mode.
And before I actually end up adding any breakpoints, what I'm going to do is populate the data store
with some data.
So I'll wait for the request to get processed.
We'll say Harry C minus potions, we'll add another grade, go back to local host 8080.
We'll add another gate for her mini.
Press submit.
And I think now we're ready to apply some breakpoints.
I'm going to add breakpoints pretty much in every single handler method.
We'll add some and get grades some and get great index just for the purpose of tracing the runtime.
I already added a throwaway print line function here just for the sake of putting a breakpoint.
Set name, set.
Subject, set, score.
All right.
Those are all the breakpoints that I want to apply.
And so now what I'm going to do is starting from the very top, make another get request on local host
88 slash grades.
The first breakpoint hits and the request maps to the handler method get grades.
The handler method adds an attribute to the model grades that maps to an array list.
If I press continue.
Now, the model has data.
If I drill into it, you'll notice a string key called grades that maps to a value.
That's an array list with two grade objects.
As the handler method is about to return the grades template, it's going to first send over all of
that model data to our time leaf templates inside the template file leaf is going to generate as many
table rows as there are elements inside of the array list.
For every grade object that it loops through, it generates a row that shares the exact same name,
the exact same subject, and the same score, as well as an update button whose link is connected to
that grade's name.
There are two grades, so Leaf is going to generate two rows.
As you can clearly see over here.
Now if I pressed the first button.
It's going to make a get request to local host 8080 passing back the student name.
The handler method intercepted the get request and it received the request parameter inside of a variable
called string name.
Now if I step inside get grayed index by just pressing continue.
It's going to eventually find a grade object that matches this name parameter.
It should be the object, that index zero.
So eventually it will return and zero.
And it did return the index a grab the object at that index and added it to the model.
You can check the model itself.
You can see that we have a great key that maps to Harry's great object.
As the handler method is about to return the form template first it sends over the model data.
The form element is going to look inside the model for a great object.
This great object is bound to this form and every underlying field is bound to a form input.
The fields are populated, so it follows that the form is going to be populated as well.
As you can clearly see here.
Now, if I were to change this to a D-minus, when you submit the form.
A post request is going to carry that data to the back end.
Now the first thing that happens is the handler method actually receives the post request, and as soon
as it does, you can see that it starts by creating an empty grade object.
So if we go to grade Java, it's already creating an empty grade object using your empty constructor.
And then Spring Boot is smart enough to use your setters and update every field inside of the grade
object with payload from the post request.
It updates the name field with a value from the post request.
It updates the score field with a value from the post request.
And that updates the subject field with a value from the post request.
Nice.
As we step further into the handler method, it's going to call get grade index.
The name parameter does match one of the objects in the array list, so this will eventually return
an index of zero.
Let's just step through it.
It does return an index of zero.
That's great.
The index is not equal to -1000, so the block gets executed and it updates the object at that index.
So now instead of having a C minus, Harry will have a D minus.
And then after we've successfully submitted the form, whether it's an addition, whether it's an update,
we redirect the client to make a get request on slash grades.
So.
Then get grades is going to get called.
It's going to add the updated ArrayList to the model.
Here we now see a key value pair where the grade's key maps to our updated array list.
And as the handler method is about to render the grades view first, it sends over the model data to
grades XHTML, HTML and finally is going to generate a table with the rows that reflect the newly updated
array list.
So if I go and press that final continue button.
We see the change.
And that's really it.
I hope you enjoyed this breakpoint session.
I'll see you in the next lesson.